hello everyone I'm Molly or mo Mac - on
github and I'm one of the ipfs project
leads and I'm here to give you a quick
q1 update and preview into q2 alright so
first we're going to start with a little
update on our 19 roadmap so that we have
context for the year then updates from
q1 preview into q2 milestones and then
pointer into a working group ok ours so
that folks can dive deeper there so
first our roadmap we peered this to
github back in December 2018 and have
been keeping it updated over the past
couple months and the big component of
this is our 2019 priority which is
focusing really deeply on package
managers and continuing to accelerate
community growth package managers are
really strategic community for us first
because it forces us to really deliver
on a set of performance reliability
scalability usability items for a
particular use case which makes I
because way more usable for a lot of
other groups with similar needs for
scaling under the DHT in performance and
adding and finding content and all of
those things the second reason is that
package manager communities are very
tech savvy and both the creators and the
users and because of that are really
able to run with ideas help us improve
prototypes like engage with us closely
as we work on meeting their needs and
also contribute back to our community in
a really valuable way we took that top
level priority and broke it down into a
series of epics which really document
the work that we're planning to take on
for the next the next year to break
those down a little bit the first item
is production readiness of the go and
jeaious implementations which is really
focused on responding to all of the
feedback we've been getting over the
past number of quarters and making ipfs
a lot more usable and a lot more
performant and reliable the method by
which we get there to that production
readiness is by focusing really closely
on package managers and using
is a great test case to scale our
solution and also iterate and and drive
quick feedback loops so that we get
better measurably release over release
and part of that is making sure that
ipfs has the scalability requirements
that having lots of people heading many
mirrors and using large-scale package
managers requires and part of that is
making sure that we have kind of the
telemetry and info so that we can make
sure that we're supporting these things
really well as many of you have probably
heard another big component of this is
launching our IP FS camp first ever open
ipfs event which is gonna be held in
Barcelona in June and we have a lot of
awesome content but together there and
we're really looking forward to
participating and engaging with the
community sharing a lot of knowledge new
ideas and just generally having a hell
of a lot of fun can be great and number
five this really goes back to the goal
of production readiness which is you
know doing all of this testing
benchmarking performance in order to
achieve that we really need to you know
be deep and realistic about all of the
current status of things so that we can
keep making it all a lot better and
finally as we continue to grow and our
community continues to grow we have more
support structures and more work in
place to support that community as we as
we scale and make sure that we're
engaging our contributors really
effectively all right so what what
actually did we do in q1 well there were
a lot of awesome accomplishments here
the first one being we finally took some
time to dive a little bit deeper on I
think that's project metrics and a big
component of this was really looking at
our users metrics of how many end users
they are they're reaching and you know
looking at really just through public
announcements from them have found that
there are a ton so many apps you saying
ipfs and at the end of the day that
we're reaching now over 5 million
monthly active users across all of those
different things which huge kudos to the
entire community this is really your
success with other desires but really
exciting to hear that there's so much
engagement in enthusiam
and something that we you know
definitely want people's feedback and
letting us know how we can support you
in serving all of these humans a big big
focus of this past quarter was
performance and usability so we'll dive
into a lot of the releases that included
features around that goal coming up next
we also booted a new package managers
working group which is really focused on
researching needs and use cases and
engaging with this community and also
doing a lot of demos and prototypes so
that we can have a really fast feedback
loop as we try and make performance
improvements to demonstrate how that
that is actually performing in practice
and finally we announced ipfs camp and
we are in the midst of planning amazing
things for you looking forward to it
creating a lot of new content that will
hopefully help everyone level up and if
you want to learn more about q1 we also
had a an update on the blog recently
which kind of recap'd some of the
amazing things from q1 including a lot
of awesome other videos so go watch some
of those and if you want to hear learn
more all right um I can hardly do all of
these justice but there were a ton of
awesome releases in q1
starting with the go o top 4.19 release
which was a gigantic release included
automat and relay to improve
connectivity included file streaming for
efficient large file handling it
included HTTP proxy which is actually
created by pier goes for exposing HTTP
services to other peers it had giant
performance and reliability improvements
the DHT bit swap pub/sub and datastore
my goodness and it had better browser
integration with base 32 C IDs and some
API improvements so a chunk of stuff in
there huge kudos to all the contributors
j oz j s 34 dot o also went out which
also included those base 30 TC IDs which
is kind of a coordinated effort between
jason go to support and accessing i can
listen the browser
it also included tons of speed ups for
dag notes and for adding content to ipfs
which is now 1.5 times faster boot and
it had ham support for m FS
supports one of the package manager
demos were working on NPM on my PFS
which you know all of you guys can go
check out and let us know how we can
make an even better
IVFs desktop also how to release about
70 dough and that included drag and drop
files to ipfs and handling of ipfs colon
slash slash and similar paths companion
also had two releases actually 2.7 dotto
and to a 7.3 which included the web UI
for embedded javascript nodes and
cluster had ODOT 10.0 which had a ton of
awesome stuff had CRD teak census layer
had custom pin metadata manual pin
allocations and a lot more huge kudos to
the team's there was a ton of stuff in
here made a lot of progress and huge
kudos to all of the people who
contributed to this whether it be design
reviews comments bug reports and you
know testing it out and helping us find
bugs with their releases before we
actually release them all of that stuff
thank you all so much for contributing
and helping us get these things out the
door all right so what's upcoming in q2
we have a lot of cool stuff planned but
to stay pretty high-level our top three
priorities are one to really continue
delivering performance features demos
and collaborations to drive package
managers forward this is kind of what
we're starting with in April what we've
been working on for the past couple
weeks but also gonna continue throughout
the quarter so it's not just a one and
done thing and this continues to be a
top thread for our core implementations
and a second priority is really
improving our ecosystem and growth
through working closely with our
contributors and making sure that we're
doing user research that we're
collaborating closely with all of our
partners in the community and we're
supporting new contributors and and you
know all users through things like
documentation and things like that this
really does tie into our third priority
which is making sure ipfs campus awesome
so that we can have a great time with
all of you and that we can also build a
thriving community around that and
awesome exciting work planned for that
it's for everyone who's gonna get to be
there alright finally working group ok
ours and this is our handy-dandy
okay our sheet we have a public one for
every quarter you link to each other I
have you can find this linked on github
in our team management repo and this
indexes in and on all of our working
groups and the Oh cares that they're
taking on for the quarter and I'm not
gonna dive into this now because there's
so much stuff in here that I wouldn't be
able to do it justice and said each of
the working group captions can give you
a more deep dive hopefully they'll
they'll shoot out little videos so that
you can get an update and talk
specifically about the work that they're
taking on why it's so important and how
you can get involved and helping make it
awesome thank you all so much it's been
great chatting with you and hopefully I
will see you around on github over the
next couple of weeks
Cheers have a great key to